Mercedes uses plug-in hybrid tech for 10 models over the next few years.
We already know the S 500 e and this is the C 350 e. A very important car.
Thanks to its hybrid tech, it's eligible for big tax benefits.
Few cars are like it: the Mitsubishi Outlander, the Volvo V60.
VW has the Passat GTE soon and BMW works on a 3 Series.
And now this C Class.
Interesting on paper, but not cheap: it starts at 58000 euros.
The estate is 2000 more. Which is still a lot for a car.
Still, this Lease Edition is well-equipped: air suspension for a nice ride.
Leather, satnav, climate control - the lot. Value for money.
Also, the tax benefits make it worth your while.
On to the tech: it's a petrol hybrid, unlike the Volvo.
There's a 2.0 turbo petrol engine with 211 PS and a 7 G-Tronic 'box.
The 60 kW electric motor is built inside that 'box - 279 PS in total.
Also, 600 Nm. So 0-100 kph goes in 5.9 seconds. Nice performance!
It can only drive 31 km on electric power, what a disgrace.
Yet in China, there are extra benefits for cars to exceed 30 km.
Yeah. My commute is 50 km, so I can't even do that on electric power.
Still, the hybrid system works nicely - Mercedes knows how to do that.
It's more refined than the V60 and doesn't vibrate much.
The G-Tronic is not smoother than Lexus' CVT, mind you.
The C Class should use 2,1 liters of fuel for each 100 km's.
In practice, it's far more. But the car does help you to drive economically.
The satnav plans on which roads electric power can be used the best.
Also, there's a 'haptic throttle' - like BMW has on the ActiveHybrid 5 series.
The radar monitors the cars in front and sends you a signal when they slow down.
That way it teaches you how to drive using less fuel. It works fairly well.
Is that the essence of this car? No. But it shows hybrid cars can be great.
Still, it's less practical. The batteries are in the rear so the boot is compromised.
That's 135 liters gone! Still, you can drop the rear seats.
Estate fans: you can't get a hitch without losing maximum tax benefits.
As then it needs different rear tires which increase emissions.
So there are some niggles, but it's a great car overall. You're lucky to get it.
+ Smooth drivetrain and handling; tax benefits
- The hitch issue; poor EV range